And we're in 209 Francis Hall, getting ready to
chat with Les Reed. Les, check yours. I think
mine's probably at a good level.
Les, for the sake of the person who may listen to
this tape or read the transcription many years
from now, Let's begin by asking you to summarize
your biography before you came here. Where did you
grow up? Where did you study? What were you doing
before you came to A&M? Well, okay, Haskell, I was a
depression baby. I was born just in May of 29, just
four or five months before the October crash. And
so that influenced the early childhood. However,
I was born in Niagara Falls, New York, of parents
who were both native born and naturalized. My
mother was a naturalized Canadian. And
consequently, my people were pretty heavily
Scotch-Canadian.
Being in Niagara Falls, my early childhood was
influenced by tourism and parks and overlooks and
all the trappings that go with that. and a father
that was heavily oriented toward the outdoors and
sports. So my youth was spent from cub scouting and
boy scouting and adventure scouting and Canadian
family vacations every year to enjoy that sort of
thing, which after my dad was moved by the DuPont
Company to manage
a chemical plant in suburban downriver detroit
michigan we moved there and i was about twelve
junior high school age and completed high
schooling uh... there in michigan hated the
industrial side of life wanted to be an
outdoorsman escaped from home wanted to go as far
away as i could and still pay in-state tuition so i
ended up at the forestry school in the upper
peninsula michigan michigan technological
colleges it was called at that Michigan College of
Mines had been its original name famous mining
school and very briefly from Michigan Tech got out
just during the start of the Korean War went into
the Army into the Signal Corps enlisted actually
for two years which was possible at that time which
I was told was a better deal than being conscripted
and going in as a draftee So I enlisted for two
years, never got to Korea, ended up teaching in the
Department of Electricity at the US Military
Academy at West Point. Don't know how that
happened. Knew very little about electricity
when I went in, hardly enough to change a light
bulb. Would have been one of that good Aggie team
that changes light bulbs. But in any event,
completed my service there. Came out and went
right back to college
with a newly born baby. girl as a way to get back into
the job market and majored there in the college of
agriculture and municipal park administration
worked as city forester and deputy park
commissioner in topeka kansas for a couple years
after graduation loved it but decided there was a
lot more i wanted to know and and ended up being
invited to come back and teach at Michigan State as
long as I would work on a doctorate. Well, I agreed
to that, went back there I think in 57, and ended up
taking two doctorates, partly. The first I was
allowed to take as a full-time faculty member a
course a semester. So I took about four years in the
wildlife department which was a related
agriculture field until i had a slight rupture
with the current department head in wildlife and i
remember being dumb as dirt i told him he was only
interested in the minutia of bass and bunnies and
couldn't see the larger aspects of of urban
recreation needs got thrown out of there and
transferred what i could to the university of
michigan and ended up with a PhD in National
Conservation Policy.
After, what's between Michigan and A&M, in terms
of your experience? Well, nothing, because I was
still, by a very hard-nosed but lovable Dean of
Agriculture, allowed to maintain a quarter-time
appointment at Michigan State, and the bulk of my
doctorate time was funded by the outdoor
recreation resources review commission in
Washington DC that was making a nationwide study
and in fact that financed my PhD I traveled the
highway back and forth the 60 some miles between
Michigan State and the University of Michigan
with my textbooks on the steering wheel and
another job part-time in in my hometown of
Wyandotte working for the city as an urban
forester
Terrible way to live a life trying to maintain a
family at the same time had two children by then But
anyway intended to stay at Michigan State for the
rest of my life got the doctorate in 63 In 65
in the spring I was taking a regional field tour in a
varsity bus and with a group of students
throughout the Northeast. We hit the Garment
District in New York. We hit Washington, D.C. We
were in the Smokies.
And I was getting repeated phone calls from the
campus saying somebody was desperate to talk to me
about moving to Texas to a college there. And I kept
putting them off, saying, look, I'm busy. I've got
problems here with students, and we're on a tight
schedule. I'll talk to them when I get back. I think
that was in June or July. When I got back to the
campus, it turned out to be Dr. R.C. Potts, Dick
Potts, who had called me and repeatedly inviting
me to come down. I'd been nominated by some folks as
a candidate for a head of a brand new department
that President Rutter wanted to establish.
that they're urging, decided to come down, take a
look, had very little interest in it.
Came back from that visit, my wife met me at the
airport in Ann Arbor, and I said, she said, what do
you think? And I said, it's the smallest little
sidewalk nothing town you ever saw in your life.
She said, do you want to do it? And I said, yeah. I
said, look, it means tearing us up, but we'll only
have to stay a year or two if we don't like it. And the
thing that Haskell really persuaded me to come was
the personality and the charisma of General
Rutter. Describe that as best you can. How was that
demonstrated? Well, you have to remember, when I
was here that first year, I think there were like
7,700 students here, almost all in the Corps, no
women, except a few hardship cases, as they were
called, who's... Family had petitioned the
president and said, look, it would be a hardship on
us economically for my little girl to go anywhere
else. Would you take her in? So we had a few grad
students, but largely it was a ROTC-uniformed
campus. I was at Michigan State, which was a big 10
power and probably 22,000 students at that time. I
had all my contacts, all my connections, my
network. professionally was in the Lake States. I
knew nothing about southern trees or environment
or dirty muddy rivers and so it looked like a big
jump. Dr. Potts met me at the airport. It was in
August. I had no idea about Texas heat. I never knew
it was hot here because he had a little underdash
air conditioning unit a bolt-on unit in his car he
had it turned up all the way i never knew it was hot
here i remember going back he took me to hobby
airport in houston when my interview visit was
over and the the rotating bank temperature on one
of the banks down there in houston said 96 and i said
i can't believe it and i opened the window and stuck
my arm out the window and almost fried But they had
kept me so much in air conditioning during my visit
that I didn't know how hot it was. Actually, the
recruitment I did later on in years was always to
try and go after northern profs in February for the
same reason anybody wanted to get out of the north
at that time of year. So anyway, getting back to
General Rutter,
because Michigan State was a large campus, I saw
John Hanna, who was the beloved president of that
university, and we all adored him, maybe once a
year in a reception line for a scant couple of
seconds. I came down here to this school, and among
all of the places that Dr. Potts shepherded me to,
one was a meeting with President Rutter. And I went
in his top floor office in the systems building,
and had a wonderful conversation with him. He was
pleasant and easy to talk to, told me some of his
dreams for the school and what he wanted A&M to
become. And after about an hour, as I remember, as
we got up to leave, he walked me to his office door,
put an arm around my shoulder, and said, Les, I
really need you to come here and help me do this
thing. And I melted. That's how Jesus' disciples
must have felt. I'll follow you anywhere. I'll do
anything to be with you. And that's what I told my
wife, is that I really want to do this. Did he seem
genuinely concerned about recreation and parks?
He didn't know what he was talking about.
Actually, he told me about his background as land
commissioner and a drug store owner in Brady and
things of that kind and not much about his Army
experience. I found out that later what a hero he
was. But his idea was that recreation was
something that his neighbors and landowners
could profit from and benefit from as an
additional use of their land during hard times
when you know cow prices and sheep were down
through hunting privileges and so he kind of saw
outdoor recreation quote unquote as farm hunting
more like a fish and wildlife ranger following
that same thread Did you know then or do you know now
who originated the idea of creating such a
program? Yeah. Yeah, Dr. Chuck Leinweber,
Charles Leinweber of Enrange Science. As a matter
of fact, he had been for a couple of years under Dean
Patterson, Dean of Agriculture, been carrying a
few students that wanted to specialize in outdoor
resource management. And that was the unusual
thing about what Rudder was proposing to me, which
was that Dean Patterson had set up a
multi-department committee to recommend to him
how to deal with this thing. And rather than build
it as an adjunct out of range science, decided to
make it a separate department along with range in
wildlife and forestry, because that's the
typical pattern in land grant schools around the
country. And so Lineweber was kind of the
nursemaid to that situation, and they went out and
looked at candidates and somehow or other, I guess
I'd been somewhat visible through this National
ARC research study and had published in that, they
decided to take a look at me. Things all go
together, I think, according to God's will,
because the time I'd spend at the military
academy, watching the cadets marching on the
plane and all that kind of stuff, it seemed like
coming home to come to A&M in a way. And so the idea
for Milan Weber, through the dean, through Vice
President Wayne Hall and Rudder, As far as you were
aware, everybody had signed on. Creation of this
brand new department. And what was it called at
organization time? Recreation and Parks.
Recreation and Parks. But it included what we
today might call also tourism? No. Did not? No. It
was largely conceived as an adjunct to a game
warden kind of program. That's originally what I
think General Rudder was looking at,
specializing in recreation, but in a very farm
outdoor hunting kind of arrangement. And what did
they offer you in terms of resources to build this
department, to create it?
Nobody offered me anything except for President
Rutter and as we left he said if you come and if
you'll give me the top national program in the
country you'll have a blank check as long as I'm
here and you know the interesting thing Haskell is
that being young and inexperienced I bought that
but it could have been all fluff it could have been
very insincere I could have come and been a single
prof working and frustrated the rest of my life
with none of that And there wouldn't be anything
you could do about it. But he was absolutely 100%
committed to this thing. Right. When you got at
some point in writing an offer of employment, did
that offer include any promises about the
department's creation in terms of resources and
so forth? They said no. Dean Patterson, through
Dick Potts, who was the chief negotiator with me,
said that we will do our best to find you space.
We're very tight on space. That hasn't changed
much, has it, over the years? And the salary they
offered me was $11,000 a year on a 12-month basis,
which was about...
I think I was at $8,600 a year or something like that
in 1965 at Michigan State at that time. So it was a
very, very healthy increase. Plus we figured the
cost of living might be somewhat less here. It was a
wrench leaving all our family and relatives. But
we thought for a few years it wouldn't be such a bad
deal. Incidentally, my reporting time was to be
December of 65. Before that time came, I got a
letter from the Ag Dean's office and found that my
starting salary had increased, without me being
there, from $11,000 to $11,800. Incredible.
Because some of those first few years were very
good as President Rutter tried to raise the
salaries. commensurate with other places and in
order to attract good faculty. He was on a real push
to get out of state faculty. In fact, I have to tell
you a little anecdote. I sent a resume when they
asked me if I was interested in being considered
for this job of department head of a new
department. I sent a resume. In those days, come on
now, five we had no computers available
everything was done on stencils and typewriter
and i sent a copy of my resume in my in my military
experience i listed my highest rank because i had
always been in a school company been in the signal
corps been in this been in that school advanced
microwave theory and finally teaching at west
point i listed corporal which was my highest rank,
Corporal, U.S. Army Signal Corps, U.S. Military
Academy, West Point. And I realized years later,
because of the copying techniques that we used, it
looked like what? Colonel. Colonel, C-O-L, not
C-P-L. And I told Dorothy, that's probably the
only reason I got the position was, you know, most
of the senior people on this campus were retired
military. And so Colonel from West Point, that
can't be too bad. He'll fit right in.
All right. Surely, as you move down here, there
must be one or two good stories about the
experiences of moving from Michigan to Texas with
a young family and all your belongings. Well, we
had everything other than having a Mayflower van
that was following us. But we left there the day
after Christmas. in a howling snowstorm and went
to pay one last visit to my Niagara Falls relatives
from Detroit. So we crossed into Canada.
In Biggie Munn's car, I had bought his big Dodge 880
station wagon with the thought of going to Texas.
Just happened he had turned it in and I bought it. So
we had it loaded to the gills, and the Ontario
Provincial Police stopped me and said, young man,
do you realize that you're going 60 miles an hour,
and it's icy and slippery? And I just had transfer
plates on it, so they didn't know where I was from.
So he let me go when I assured him that I knew how to
drive on ice and snow. But that was the weather we
left. two days later, we were driving down through
Elvis Presley's hometown, Tupelo, Mississippi,
shedding all of our parkas and heavy coats, and the
kids were sweltering in the car, and got into
Brian, and the roses were still blooming. So that
was the change in scenery that took place that
December. Where were you first officed? Where
would your first First office they gave me was in
the plant science building on the third floor.
Golly, I can't remember the name, Haskell, of the
terrible crotchety old individual in
horticulture that was one of the best teachers
they ever had. And you were identified as head of
the department. Head of the department with one
office. One office, and you were the only faculty
member. I was the only faculty member. In a week, I
interviewed a secretary. They gave me a second
office, so I was the secretary. These were little
offices, about 10 by 12. And so I had one office
there. I was a horticulture prof. This was a
dead-end hall with four small suites, four small
offices in the suite. So I had a department
secretary in the next office in the storage room
across from her, and I went to a Southwest Regional
Park and Recreation Training Institute at Lake
Texoma that was sponsored yearly by Texas Tech's
park management curriculum. And found a young man
there who was very unhappy with the PhD program he
was in at LSNU. and persuaded him to come with me to
transfer his program. We had no PhD. We had no
master's. But we had good connections with
Charles Leidenweber, who was still nurse-mating
our few graduate students. And he did. He came as an
instructor, got him appointed. And I have to tell
you a little anecdote about my student body. Got in
there, got unpacking. that first few days
carrying stuff up from the car, and a young fella
came in in uniform with his cap in his hand, said,
sir, I understand this is going to be Parks and
Recreation. I said, well, Recreation and Parks,
yeah. He said, I want to be in this department. And
he was a transfer,
he became my first student i said if you'll help me
shelve some of these books get them out of the boxes
and hand them to me i'll talk to you about this as we
go he's he was here he was recognized as our
outstanding student from years back he has just
this year been appointed as the director of state
parks in texas after a 25-year career in the
national park services that's called the chief
ranger that's the only one in the united states
he's chief of all the rangers in all the national
parks so he's had a brilliant career and now he's
back as director of texas state parks but we
shelved those books and he told me last week he
still remembers the picture i hung on the wall
which was a log cabin in the woods with snow deep all
around it and pine trees towering over and he said
that's the way i want to live my life But he was in
danger of failing out. He had about a D average. And
this was a last gasp chance for him to find out
something that he liked. And the rest of that
spring semester, Haskell, he was in frequently
with some shave-headed friend out of his company
saying, sir, here's another boy that needs to be
with us in our department. And by the end of the
semester, we had, I think, 17 majors. Dick Potts
had told me now when you get down here we don't want
you to teach in the spring semester we I want you to
travel learn about the states Michigan had 83
counties Texas has 254 spread all over and he said
you need to become familiar with the towns and the
resources and the way people think down here well I
didn't I was so hungry to get teaching that between
my first instructor and I, we taught four courses
that first semester. When did you go through the
red tape routine of getting a degree program
authorized by the Coordinating Board and so
forth? Constantly. Never stopped. I think that,
well, the bachelor's was approved.
Was the Masters approved initially? Ashworth,
his name sticks in my mind. No, prior to him it was
Reed, R-E-E-D, who I always call Sheepstealers,
but that's here and there. Anyway,
I still have some of the proposals that I wrote for
the advanced degrees. One thing they had promised
me was that they would do everything possible to
get all three degrees. I said, if we're going to be
first class in the country, we have to have a
terminal degree. And without General Rutter,
that never, never would have happened. And the way
it happened was the coordinating board, with Lyne
Ruber's help, we did prepare and get approval for
the masters. and the bachelors and the
coordinating board then in that same action when
we requested all three refused the PhD
and I was told the reason was you need to develop
some graduates and then some masters graduates
and then ultimately track faculty and students
with enough critical mass to make a PhD And I argued
we'd be 20 years getting to that point. But what
they really wanted me to do was to develop, I would
say, like a pyramid, a broad base, a lot of
instructors, a lot of assistant professors,
fewer associates, and one or two PhDs.
I persuaded, I think I persuaded President Rudder
We had to do it like an ice cream cone. We had to have a
cadre of top, full professors with national
reputations if we were going to do this thing. And
he sent me over. Actually, a couple trips I made to
Austin at his behest, he'd call me up and say, I want
to go over to Austin. There's some people I want you
to meet, either politicians or legislators. Can
you go? And I said, of course I can go. So he said,
meet me at the airport. He had a twin engine plane.
And he wasn't above testing his people, though.
And I remember on one trip coming back in the plane
with him, I was sitting in the co-pilot seat, and he
said to the pilot, hand less the wheel. I want him to
fly. Because he knew I was a licensed private
pilot. And I'd be like, buh, buh, buh, buh, buh. So I
flew it about halfway from Austin back, not to
land, but it was a faster plane than us.
Comfortable flying, but I think he just wanted to
see what I was made out of. In any event, he sent me to
Austin. I sat down with the commissioner, Reed. I
can't remember his first name. We will.
Bevington. Bevington Reed, you're correct. In
any event, we worked on a yellow faculty pad of
paper on names for the graduate degrees. And I
wanted resources in it. wanted recreation in it
played around with a lot of different terms there
were so many maximum letters you know a limit to the
maximum letters could be any way finally decided
recreation and aspirin in the middle recreation
and resource of development I wanted a strong
outdoor environmental flavor in it he said yeah we
can do that he said in fact it'll be easier to
because we got a problem with the board he didn't
tell me how many but he said we have a significant
number of texas tech graduates on the board we will
never get you a phd ever that has parks in the title
because tech doesn't have one but he said i think we
can get recreation and resources development and
he did and that's why our uh Formal title was that,
didn't have parks. Our department continued, and
our undergraduate degree was recreation and
parks. Do you have any idea what year that doctoral
program was approved? I can get that for you. But
three or four years into it? Oh, yeah. No longer
than that. I think that proposal went in in 69 ASCA.
Those first, we'll say those first four or five
years of the 60s, Did you run into any roadblocks on
campus, any impediments at all? So far, you've
indicated that everybody was positive. Was that
true?
To a large degree, yes, but I had a certain amount of
turf wars with health and physical education
because around the country, the normal title is
health physical education and recreation at this
school they didn't have recreation and he wanted
it and he was justifiably i guess jealous of
something starting that had recreation parks in
the title our our main focus was not community
recreation which is the focus at most other
schools it's therapeutic recreation and youth
recreation and community recreation. There were
a lot of other schools doing that. We wanted to do
something different here that was tied to the
resources. So, yeah, there was every time they
would suggest or propose a course that had
recreation in the title, Recreation Adventure or
something like that, outdoor recreation,
sports, you know, then the curriculum committee
at the college level would send it to me, and we'd
negotiate with them. And every time I wanted
something, then he would similarly take a hard
look at it, and we'd have to compromise. Trivia, we
bounce back to Michigan State for a second. Did you
ever up there encounter a fellow named Woody
Verner? Durwood T. Verner. Yeah, yeah. He became a
vice president? And then was president at Oakland
when they created that campus, and then went to
Nebraska. The reason I ask is he's class of 1940
here, and he was all everything. If you look at the
yearbook that year, you find Woody Varner in every
page. He was from Cottonwood, Texas, out toward
Abilene. He always laughed. He was 10%. of the
graduating class of Cottonwood his senior but you
didn't know him then I didn't realize I knew him but
I didn't realize it was an A&M connection with him
because I knew nothing about this school in fact I
was living in what we call the faculty bricks up
there the Cherry Lane bricks on the Michigan State
campus which were two story eight family things
and my neighbor across the street was a teaching in
ag economics.
And his wife and mine and his kids and mine and he and
I got quite close there over my first year before I
moved off to a private house.
Finally I told him that I was being recruited to
come and look at a position at Texas A&M. I said,
it's some little place down in Central Texas
somewhere. He said, I was born on that campus. I
said, what are you talking about? He said, my
father was head. This was James Bonham. My father
was head of ag economics before Ty Tim. And he had
gone to Harvard and so on, and so I had no idea he was
from Texas. He said, I said, what about this?
Should I even go and look at this place? What kind of
a school is it? And he gave me this background
about, what, the poor boys,
social misfits, some kind of a thing like that. And
he said, it has the potential to be a great school.
but they're going to have to drag it kicking and
screaming into the 20th century. So I went with
that kind of, on that interview, with that kind of a
negative almost attitude, and President Rutter
just absolutely turned it around. How did you and
your family feel you were received as newcomers in
the community? Very warmly, very warmly. We
rented down in Bryan initially and joined the
Presbyterian Church, although both our roots
were in a small Baptist church in Michigan. And
Dick Potts nominated me in the spring of 66 to the
one Rotary Club in town. Dean Patterson's
associate dean was Harry Kunkel, and Kunkel was
closely connected with Henry
Clay, president of First Bank in Bryan, and was on
the board of directors of that bank, introduced me
to Henry Clay, got me banking there. I had been a
pretty big fish as city forester and deputy park
commissioner in Topeka Kansas which is a state
capital and I kind of liked that ambitious
inordinately ambitious and and I felt similarly
the the warmth and the openness of of Bryan and
College Station was easy to feel the separation
between the two and the competitiveness of the two
instead of you know I've been involved in bottom
municipal administration in Kansas and here were
two cities that deserve to be one city and yet there
was no way they were going to merge and that was
pretty apparent but as far as the people were it was
a small tightly knit community we went to get a
chair upholstered I remember at Kepchinski's and
when we introduced ourselves, he said, this town
is getting so big, I just don't know everybody
anymore. I used to know everybody that came
through that door. So it was that kind of a rather
rural community. As you look back, the fact that
you had been at Michigan State, a separate land
grant school, was that helpful in your being able
to understand A&M a little more quickly? Oh,
absolutely. Couldn't have done it otherwise
because that pattern is so strong through the
states. Michigan State, of course, is proud of the
fact that they are the pioneer land grant school.
And here... John Hutchinson, who was director of
Extension, ran Extension as a personal fiefdom.
No, that's not fair. He ran it as a separate family.
And he took care of his folks, and he demanded a lot
of adulation from them, and he got it. But that, as I
went through the years and finally became, Harry
Kunkel became dean and I became one of his senior
statesman in terms of longevity, he told us in one
staff meeting that he was seriously considering
giving up the directorship of the Agricultural
Experiment Station, giving that to one of his
associates as full director. and I argued long and
hard that he shouldn't do it that it was important
as my crusty old Dean Cowden had been in Michigan
State to wear all three hats so that ultimately
when it came down to a decision point he was able to
make that final decision and if if Kunkel gave away
that very likely he would rule it someday when they
came to a split decision over something and that
happened that actually happened Now, when you
arrived, women had just been admitted officially
and the corps had just been made optional. Was that
in 66? I thought it was a little later than that.
Well, it was right about, but we didn't have many
women for a number of years because it was
primarily for the graduate and professional.
area, not the undergraduate, unless you were a
dependent. When did you, let's go back to, who was
your first significant departmental hire? When
did you really hire somebody that began to
demonstrate that this program was on the map? I was
very fortunate.
And I'd have to look in our continuity of
newsletters to tell you exactly, but I hired an
instructor, and then very quickly after, two full
professors. I hired my former department head for
Michigan State, who's as near a genius as I'll
probably ever meet, but a very great cynic,
because he'd seen it all before. So he was looking
for something else.
and then that was Dr. Frank Suggett and so he left
Michigan State and came with me and then Claire
Gunn who had been on my master's committee and was a
landscape architect with strong international
tourism leanings was teaching at the University
of Hawaii on a short-term basis planning to go back
to Michigan State and I lured him to Texas instead
and then brought in Carlton Van Doren out of
geography who was came as an associate professor
so there was that ice cream cone I wanted to build
from the top down. When you were recruiting those
senior people what was the primary point of
attraction you could offer them? A chance to do
something that had never been done before. At
Michigan State Our recreation program and the
other resource departments, wildlife fisheries
range, were in what was called a conservation
institute. The people were full-time in separate
departments, but part of their salary was paid by
the conservation institute to do some minor
amount of research or work there.
I think the thing that persuaded these senior
people to come here to an unknown place and an
unknown experience was that I said, I want to turn
that model inside out. I want to own all the salary.
I want to have the institute. I want to have people
with different backgrounds. But I want to own the
whole person. And so
Sugga was a Harvard scholar, outstanding student
there. Dunn was landscape architect. Van Doren
was a geographer. I'd hired a couple of
instructors along the way. Dave Reed, who was a
Texas boy and a graduate of Parks in Texas Tech. And
Dowell, who was a community recreation lad out of
Louisiana that had been my first hire. And the idea
was to have people from many different
disciplines, but all focusing their energy on
some aspect of outdoor recreation. Now, did you
say to them, we're planning to be first-rate
national class? Absolutely. Absolutely. That
was the vision that, you know, if they weren't
prepared to work toward that end above personal
ambition, you know, then don't bother to come. And
particularly in the rudder years, you got support
for that goal. Although you had, let's see, Hall
left and Byers became Vice President for Academic
Affairs and then Calhoun followed in. Calhoun was
in there. So that was consistent. With, at first,
on the regional level, you were supposedly
comparable to, or compared to Texas Tech. What
other regional schools, what other schools were
there in this region that had a program at all
similar? Moved into a vacuum. We had about a
thousand miles with very little competition.
Texas Tech regarded, well, two things. I wouldn't
have come probably except that Kunkel as
assistant to Dean Patterson really supported me
more than I ever should have been supported
because you know I wanted everything and he kept
he's German and he kept fighting me down and he said
well I'm giving you half a loaf you know be
satisfied today I said no I want the whole loaf but
but he always gave me at least half a loaf before I
came i knew urbanowski through our national
associations in recreation and parks and i called
elo and he talked to me and he said y'all come on down
here we need a little competition you know i'm not
afraid of having you down here so he encouraged me
to come and start that's the texas tech that's
texas tech but he was an a m graduate he claims he was
the one that forged the weather vanes on top of the
old horse barn Now, there was no program of this
sort at LSU. No, no. Nationally, who were your
models? There was kind of a program at Oklahoma
State because I found out later Dan Badger, who I'd
worked with in the York study, had recommended me
here. Another big supporter that put pressure on
some people was Bob Frazier, who was an Aggie, and
director of parks in San Antonio and highly highly
respected and he also called me frequently
persuading me to come to A&M but you see we had about
a thousand miles without anybody there were only
about six schools in the country that had any kind
of outdoor recreation resource centered parks
Colorado State Syracuse, Michigan State,
Cal State, Idaho had a little one. Cornell? Yeah,
yeah. But not very significant. Michigan State
was regarded as the top place. Some people might
dispute that, but that was pretty much it. And the
enrollment? began to do what? Just skyrocketed.
We had 17 during the first semester and I think 57
the following September and just kept growing.
We had moved from the few offices quickly into from
plant science over to the heat building on the
second floor. The dean of agriculture just moved
out of there and so I was able to occupy that end of
the second floor that he vacated. And I guess we had
maybe four female staff members and hired my first
woman faculty member. Oh, hey, let's talk about
that. When was that and who was it? Probably around
70, 69.
Billy Ingram was her name. And then we had probably
a total of six or seven faculty members at that
time. Speaking about the gender thing, Haskell,
we did have one of the first female undergraduates
in the College of Agriculture, a girl from out here
east of town, Eva Zweifel, local German family.